# An Advanced Real Plus Minus for Soccer
Real Plus Minus (RPM) is an advanced statistic used in major team sports that was created in order to assess a player’s true value to their team. While standard box plus minus
statistics factor only the score differential while a player is on the court/field, RPM accounts for the level of supporting talent and competition. The idea was first popularized in basketball but has not been utilized extensively for the sport of soccer. For this paper, we wanted to not only expand this popular metric to soccer but incorporate various statistics in addition to goals that highlight a player's added contributions to their team. This advanced version of RPM serves as a holistic measure of the impact a player has on a game. To calculate the metric, we employed a ridge regression using data from the 2019-20 Premier League season. By weighting each game statistic, we created an overall offensive and defensive advanced RPM for each player. While this metric would typically be used to identify transfer targets that are considered valuable, we believe it can be applied on a game level allowing managers to construct optimal lineups based on their game plan for the opposing team as well. Our methodology can be replicated for any
soccer league across the world, and the advanced RPM concept is applicable to different sports.


Our Advanced RPM statistic brings a variety of analysis and application options to the table that have not been capitalized upon before. A principal use of Advanced RPM can be
within talent scouting and acquisition, as it offers a new variable that integrates several important and often undiscussed measures of player performance. It is not surprising to see the Advanced RPM statistic identify some of the star players that most fans are familiar with; it is surprising (and extremely useful) when Advanced RPM highlights players that are not recognized by some of the more basic stats like goals, assists, shots, etc. This can allow managers and coaches to scout younger or overshadowed players that are not getting the recognition they deserve. This application can be measured with respect to salary or market value, and thus be used to see which players are under- or overperforming. This can aid managers in determining lengths ofplayer contracts as well as whether or not to sign new players.
An additional key application of the Advanced RPM statistic concerns lineup analysis. With this statistic, coaches will be able to determine which players are playing best with one another, and thus determine what lineups will be most ideal in any given situation. As more and more substitutions are being allowed, Advanced RPM proves more valuable in game-time decisions. Finally, our Advanced RPM statistic is not limited to just the EPL; it’s utility can be applied to soccer leagues and teams around the world. It is often incredibly difficult to decide which players deserve the call up to represent their country, so Advanced RPM can assist national team managers in making these unnecessarily stressful decisions. 
